Source: Reddit r/UTAustin
Thread Title: I'm a UT CS junior and here's my mini rant
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/UTAustin/comments/16cjb24/im_a_ut_cs_junior_and_heres_my_mini_rant/
Total Comments: 20+

--- ORIGINAL POST ---
For context I'm a UT CS junior and I feel totally utterly lost thinking about my future. I'm in algorithms right now and I don't know what's going on. I'm also way too burnt out to handle my 3 other classes. I am a 2x business owner and content creator with 90K+ followers, and I make a decent stream of money through that, but I feel pressured for things to work out before I graduate.

It's also internship season and I have been applying to many. I got rejected from one I really loved because apparently my experiences were very different than what they're looking for. I'm also stressed that my social media will decline and everything I built will crash at any moment.

I spent my college years building new things and doing what I love -- mainly content creation and business building -- and now I don't know if it was the right decision because maybe I should have followed a more traditional CS pathway with more normal work experience and better grades. But I wouldn't have been happy.

Is anyone else here also lost? How do you combat everything going on emotionally?

--- COMMENTS ---

ATXblazer:
Sounds like you're doing it! You've made it to junior year, you're passing, and you have a great side hustle or potential career in content. Just keep grinding -- the light at the end of the tunnel is close. I graduated CS with no internships and have had a good career so far. You'll be okay if you don't land one and will have more time for content all summer. It's a win either way in your scenario.

swethatandri (OP):
Thank you! The reasons I wanted an internship are corporate experience, pleasing my parents, and having something to fall back on. But nothing would make me happier than being an entrepreneur full time.

nemout:
Former CS dropout, UT grad here. I dropped out of CS my senior year for a multitude of reasons. Fast forward many years and my entire career has been in tech, working for some of the top brands globally. You're doing exactly what you're supposed to do by exploring and seeing what feels right. Not everyone's path looks the same. I didn't do a single tech internship and graduated with a liberal arts degree and ended up being successful next to people who had it all figured out day 1.

Focus on daily gratitude -- you're at one of the top universities in the world and you've built businesses successfully WHILE being a student. Wherever you end up, hard work is a major differentiator. Most of all, give yourself grace.

UTAustin9999:
It is not recommended to drop majors like CS and engineering after sophomore year. I went through many hardships and obstacles and sometimes lost my motivation and felt depressed. However, I sought consultation from my professor, academic advisor, and engineering student services, and felt better. You should seek help from the CNS student services department.

swethatandri (OP):
I have no intention to drop out. I'm gonna finish but I feel like other than my degree, my future is a blank slate.

TuitionBill:
There are 2 cures to feeling lost: experience and knowing who you are. If something makes you uncomfortable but you are obligated to complete it out of duty and security, learn what you hate about it and in your next stage of life, don't do it. Life is short. There is no set path and you can pivot and do anything you want.

I know a finance person that quit their lucrative job at 25 to study for the MCAT and now they're at Harvard Med School. I know a nutrition major that works at FAANG as a software engineer after a year of doing projects. There will always be uncertainty and fear, but that's okay.

For stress management: track your mood, journal, run, see friends, eat good food. Seek professional help if you need it.

netflixandcookies:
You are trying to solve too many problems at the same time. Take a step back and figure out which is the highest priority and which can wait. You are clearly on your path to a successful life and among the top 5% of your peers. There will always be this feeling of uncertainty and fear every now and then -- that's normal.

[Deleted User]:
You're doing way too many things at once. Step back and think about what will benefit you the most in your future. Your education is more important than content creation, which you could easily pick up later or after you graduate. It's way harder to come back from bad grades or dropping out of UT CS.

taye3380:
I completely love your honesty -- we need more of it. I do meditation 15 minutes a day in the morning to regulate my emotions. It's the only way I stay grounded from all the pressures college and this city have to offer.

Weatherround97:
Drop out and make content.